# 8-2-Journal-Portfolio-Submission
CS-230-J5953 Operating Platforms 21EW5

     The premise for this project was that I worked as Technology Consultant for The Gaming Room. The Gaming Room wanted to develop a web-based game that serves multiple platforms based on their current game, Draw It or Lose It. Loosely similar to the 1980s television game Win, Lose or Draw, where teams compete to guess what is being drawn. Rather than a player drawing images on an easel to help team members guess the puzzle (a phrase, title, or thing), the application will render images from a large library of stock drawings as clues. A game consists of four rounds of play lasting one minute each. Drawings are rendered at a steady rate and are fully complete at the 30-second mark. If the team does not guess the puzzle before time expires, the remaining teams have an opportunity to offer one guess each to solve the puzzle with a 15-second time limit. 
     
     While most of the project was a bit rough for me the last section of the design document, personal recommendations, I think is where I did best. It was, in my opinion, to balance the current needs The Game Room requires, with the scalability of future growth, but also providing cost effective solutions. The process of the design document was useful in getting an overall grasp of what you would need to accomplish to develop any application. As for sections that could use rework, I would say that the evaluation in the software design template, sever side, client side and the development tools section could use a more in-depth rework and be more focused on development of our game on each platform, and for a Java server and web front end. Interpreting the user’s needs and implementing them into the software design, is a bit difficult as to me it seems that the company would have done a market study to see where their best chance of entering the gaming market.
     
	   When developing a client software, it is extremely important to understand and anticipate their needs. However, it is also imperative that we the designers give them options, in particular cost-effective options specifically when developing for a startup. The better you understand your customers needs, the more likely you are to design and build a product that works well for them. And to approach this task and tackle it, you have to study and understand the problem, identify specific features and at least one possible solution and describing each solution. And for future projects like this, I need to have a better understanding of the architecture od the design, especially client and server system and subsystems that are controlling the other modules. 
     
